---
title: "Mechanized travel, or, a day and a half of sitting"
date: "2014-02-13T22:12:03.284Z"
---

                    <p>4:45pm - i&rsquo;m sitting here, trapped between a beautiful coincidence of sunset and full-moonrise, on vandenburg air force base getting a view that one cannot otherwise (off of a train) have as a civilian.  occasional deepening sky color, from azure to crimson, over sudden beaches right, cliff faces left, (and a SpaceX building and rocket gantry?) with the white face poking between, then over, clifftops as we time traveled.  i&rsquo;ve had 3 different seatmates on this trip, and two have been pleasant enough and i slept through the other one.  but the time has passed, mostly sedate.  some gorgeous, some remote, some both.  ocean, trees, and occasional neighborhoods encamped next to the graffiti-magnet walls that line the track&hellip;walls existing mostly only existing where you find graffiti; everywhere else finds fences sufficient.<br/><br/>the train trip is a reverse-repeat of one i made at the end of my last big tour-in-the-desert-in-february, 3 years ago.  i recognized all the train stations until sunset in santa barbara, my southernmost amtrak point of travel until now.  this time on the train kind of washes over me.  i&rsquo;m hypnotized by the landscape with real-time parallax effects, with the sinuous curve of antique power line draped over infinite poles, telling a story of elements and neglect, undermined by signposts warning of buried fiber optic cable which match the old pole-route turn for turn.<br/><br/>i watched the rain of the evening southbound through eugene to the snow of midnight near klamath falls, but then i slipped between the imaginary world sealed outside of my metalliglass box via dream and by once going outside to stand in the rain to breathe some unrecycled air.  now i watch the wine-dark horizon turn into a dark grey wool blanket against the waves as the night takes over.  sudden clanks and creaks remind me that we are in motion, and that the parallax effects are due to velocity, along predestined route between fences and trees and waves and (rarely) walls, &hellip;nearly entirely outside city limits.<br/><br/>i suddenly realize how fragile my location sensing capability is, trying to track the train - i have ACA maps with their infinite relevant detail, but wandering off of their designated route renders them nearly useless with lack of accompanying detail.  google maps are the best thing since sliced bread, the primary raison d'etre for smartphones in my opinion, but they are only good as a *reference* without ability to phone home - can&rsquo;t route. can&rsquo;t search.  can only find yourself when the gps radios finally get a reply, hopefully within content that you have successfully cached, in individual 15-mile-wide slices, along a route that you have carefully and diligently preselected to match the typical intentionts of folks following the ACA maps.  someone like me without a sense of direction or distance will (as always, outside of my bicycle known-space orbits) have to pay extra attention to stay on route, keep extra cellphone batteries around, etc.  don&rsquo;t worry; i think i&rsquo;m prepared.<br/><br/>random aside: acquiring the kindle has been a curse and a blessing.  i don&rsquo;t mean to foreload or foreshadow by introducing it like that, because it has been a frequent blessing - the lightest ~2000 pages i&rsquo;ve ever carried (and that&rsquo;s only counting the ones i&rsquo;ve read of the mini library i assembled upon the device).  i would have gone bored far too many &ldquo;too late for exploring afoot, too early for sleep&rdquo; or &ldquo;stuck in transit&rdquo; sessions in this trip - for there has been a steady stream of passive travel (which biking is not :)) - not a river, not a jet, but a stream - hourS per two days, when you average it out.  and the reading lets me escape, so i lean on it like a crutch.  but it&rsquo;s the best kind of escapism, wouldn&rsquo;t you say?  i mean, if you have to label it escapism.  and i do have to, sometimes, when i think back on it from an otherwise vigorously busy life, when my sometimes-unloved blog, or much put-off bike maintenance remind me of their incompletion&hellip;the things, that despite having nothing i must do&hellip;are things i wish i did more of.  anyway, i&rsquo;m not too sad about this.  just, when you don&rsquo;t hear from me, just assume i got caught up with Chabon or Ms. Le Guin and know that i&rsquo;ll be back murmuring in your ear as soon as i can.<br/><br/>9:21 pm: arrived Los Angeles and am captivated by their glowingly beautiful union station.  Very much enjoying sitting outside in a tshirt under the palm trees after dark.  I know it gets colder from here, but at least it&rsquo;s starting from somewhere totally balmy and enjoyable!  Amtrak arrived here a half-hour early after 29 hours in transit;  now i transfer to a different san diego bound train before i sleep.</p>
