---
title: Setting out
date: "2014-02-14T21:01:39-08:00"
---

<p> I write from the only campground within 20 miles either direction.  Luckily, I happened to call in just after dinner to enquire as to whether they had room and found out they were about to close, so hurried a "reservation" and they left a key for me under the mat (literally!)  

Today was pretty grueling, yet I didn't really go that far - a ride that I could have done in an afternoon in portland.  This highlit several kind of unfortunate realities for me:<br/><br/>

1. I am pretty out of shape for loaded touring!  I'm carrying probably 70 pounds or so of stuff on my bike.  Bags, tent, sleeping gear, food, clothes, spare bike parts, and water.  water's freaking heavy!  8 pounds a gallon, and while i only have a gallon capacity...i was considering throwing some of it overboard as i struggled up the road today.  i know from past experience that my legs, my metabolism, and my (tender) butt will all toughen up pretty quickly, probably within the week.  no good solution for my willpower, but i think i wouldn't turn back now - just a matter of not jumping on every bus going my way.  i was sorely tempted to take a bus today once i realized that the really brutal elevation gain part had a bus running up to within a mile of here, but i felt more like it would be a bad precedent than that i needed to be strong and start out on a good foot.  plus i was too lazy to remove all the bags (4 + tent + toolkit) to put the bike on the bus and to struggle onto the bus with that load.<br/><br/>2) i hope to get better at getting up early.  i attempted to set an alarm at about 3am when i got tired last night, but i failed in the last step and awoke at 9:30, which was enough time to make it to the post office to mail off a few things i didn't want to carry with me (duffel bag big enough to fit most of my stuff in it, for ease of amtrak-riding), and get in a shower and shave, and still check out by noon, but just barely.  if i'd had to strike camp too, it would have been 12:30 before i was rolling.  no problem in the summer months when it's still light after nine, but even down closer to the tropics, it starts getting dark around 6 and light is all the way gone before 7.  i know, portland, right now you hate me a little bit - going from one land of endless summer (NZ) to another (southwest US) and having the gall to complain that it's not as summery as i'd like.  well, you got me there, but without some better up-n-attem, i'll be making short days til el paso and taking a bus to austin, which would be crappy - i've always wanted to ride across texas, and it's almost a third of this trip.<br/><br/>3) the weather is going to be what i'd been saying it was.  i wasn't mentally prepared for that reality though!  85 and sunny means holy crap i sweat a lot.  i did drink almost a gallon of water today and no booze, yet i am still thirsty.  I might have to invest in another nalgene or something, since a gallon of water will not be enough for 2 long days.  fortunately it's not time yet to be in that kind of situation, but it will be soon.<br/><br/>4) this route is hillier than expected.  to be honest, it's not super hilly overall.  but launching into a 4k' climb on day one is nutso.  i stopped halfway at this campground, but even that first 2k was pretty grueling, and the next 2k is straight-up-no-breaks.  and then it's followed by some pretty brutal "rollers" at 500ish feet.  but then back to closer to sea level for warmer nights.  not that this is frigid, at 7:45, but it's clear it'll be chilly before dawn.  and, not so chilly after dawn.  i'm not sure when the cool part of the daylight is (if such a thing exists) but it was not any time after noon.  another reason for better wakeology!<br/><br/>5) i managed to go off-map quite substantially today, on purpose.  i don't think this will be a regular trend, but it makes me a little nervous.  still, only misrouted by a few blocks (in the city, still) from my intended path.<br/><br/>6) must remember to eat snacks.  solid breakfast followed by waiting til dinner = bonk in the heat of the day on the long hill.  i made it, but required ridiculously frequent stops.  now that i have some snacks (i'd been holding off on shopping til i needed to...which turned out to be "now" at a point at which there were no grocery stores.  oops!) everything will be fine.  but anyway, i survived, am full of tasty dinner, and stocked up for a mostly-service-less day tomorrow (there will be a couple quickie marts, but not much else)<br/><br/>7) san diego has a balboa park, and it may be nicer than san francisco's.  it also broke my spirit a bit when i had to shift into granny gear still in town, in the park..and still ended up walking up that hill.  still, breathtakingly beautiful and if i ever go back (hmm.  don't see that very near in my future, but one never knows, i suppose) i'll spend as much time there as i do in san francisco's.  only, san diego's has a museum, and fountains, and all manner of stuff in addition to the crowds-of-people watching.<br/><br/>now for a shower, early z, and getting ready to be a go-getter tomorrow?</p>
