---
title: "mojo and desert: found!"
date: "2014-02-17T21:01:39-08:00"
---
                                    
wifi at the trailer park in nowheresville?  yes we can!<br/><br/>remember when i said the darkness was arrived by 7?  more like 615.  so feel a little less jealous, maybe?<br/><br/>this morning i rode out of town through the agricultural lands - surprisingly green, bordered by open, deep, wide, fast, clear-looking (a guy was fishing in it?) irrigation canals.  You can see in one picture a weird attempt to somehow offset some of the worst environmental offenses in factory farms with the fanciest auto-rotating-in-two-planes solar array i've ever seen.  i passed literally hundreds of thousands (maybe a million+ - i didn't count closely, i just kind of gaped) of hay bales.  apparently, this place is some kind of hay bale distribution business was at least 2 miles long, currently placed in hundreds of batches 20 bales high, 10 deep, and hundreds long.  effectively, though hot and dry in the air, on the ground, it wasn't the desert - it was like middle america, smelling of cow and grass with visible water.  about 15 miles out of town, suddenly, the canal vanished, and the scrub started up - and my memory was jogged.<br/><br/>while talking about this trip, i'd been remembering the desert 3 years ago when i biked through death valley.  being surprised that the desert was busy - not empty - though spare (rather than sparse).  been waiting to see something like that since i left san diego...and while it's been dry, dusty, hot, sunny, etc...the landscape was still tamed by man.  brawley, happening to be a hundred+ feet below sea level, felt like it might be the edge of the real desert - but unfortunately that edge was largely folks driving trucks carrying trucks to or from the sand dunes to play.  if you've ever been near sand river in oregon on a weekend...well, multiply that by 10.  so many folks here go out to the dunes to play!  yay!  but not the folks i can make friends with since i'm only in the way on the side of the freeway, hugging a shoulder that worsened from town (a reasonable lane) to about -2 inches by the time i got deep in the desert.  weekend warriors flying past with extra-wide side mirrors and trailers...but fortunately, no harm no foul today, which was apparently "everyone go the fuck home from your president's day celebrations towing your rv towing a trailer full of sandvehicles" day, unbeknownst to me.  but anyway, the desert, it's here!<br/><br/>once the scrub really set in, i started to see my old friends - the ocotillo and the cholla, the creosote and the lizards.  return of desert hare! (my nickname on the last desert tour.  still rockin' the ears...)  i was basking in it when the dunes opened up - like straight off tatooine or something.  i did not stop to climb any dunes on foot, knowing that hard work, and sand in EVERYthing that way lies from a trip to the national sand dunes monument in 2001, but i appreciated them from afar, or anear when they drifted into my minimal highway shoulder.  i expect i'll see a kangaroo mouse any minute now (that being the most-seen animal after lizards, last time i was nearby).<br/><br/>i had a surprisingly good day - longest ride yet, pushed along at my steady 12mph for the first half and wondered where my mojo had gone.  then, through the magic of consistent hydration and nutrition perhaps, plus an unanticipated 1000' drop, the last 35 miles found my mojo...i averaged ~17 and really felt great.  even my tender bits are feeling pretty ok.  so maybe i turned a corner...which is weird, because i've been on the same street all day (hwy 78 in the house!)<br/><br/>pulled into palo verde at a reasonable time after not-dying on the skinny shoulder, leaving the desert to put up a tent next to the highly irrigation-tainted colorado river (which the locals call several things - river, lagoon, canal, "bass fishing capitol of the world".  weird folks here, all hundred-ish of them.  only talked to a half dozen here at the trailer park, and did not talk to the no-shit buddhist monk in mufti that i saw walk by.  also in the trailer park.</p>
<p>also pictured:  the bombing range i rode next to (?), an indicator that i've officially crossed over to the "other side", and a notice that something, but it's a secret as to what, will be taking place over the next 5 miles...</p>
<p><br/>gorgeous sunset.  beer from the quickie mart.  sunset from heaven.  stars from somewhere out there.  and another long ride tomorrow.  yeehaw!<
