---
title: a day late and strangely long.
date: "2014-02-19T21:01:39-08:00"
---

<p>yesterday said:<br/><br/>hello aridzona; so long, !coolifornia!  might need some help coming up with an affectionate appropriate nickname for nude mexico though...<br/><br/>another long day, in fact, the longest yet in miles and in hours - set out by 8:15 and rolled into camp at 3:30 (and timeshifted  an hour into mountain time, so i arrived just as the office was closing, at 4:30.  i keep forgetting that small towns are not beholden to that whole "stay open til reasonable hours" strategy.)  i'm in the one-horse town of hope, arizona, tonight, at possibly the nicest RV park i've ever been in.  still, 10 bucks for a warm shower, and a place to lay my head is all i was hoping for, and this place will do just fine.  there's also a quickie mart across the highway intersection, and a church.  and nothing else within 10 miles, as far as i can tell.  i guess the intersection made the place people-worthy, but it seems likely that the RV park made it someplace that wanted a church and a gas station - seems like placemaking to me, which is usually something i love, and i don't dislike this or anything, i'm just not captivated.  i might be desert-ed out at the moment;  certainly i'm tired and very sore.  while i can do multiple long days (and i think i have two more @ ~60mi/ea coming...which to be fair is a little less than today and yesterday, at least.  and i think i'm gonna need a day to rest in phoenix...not that i have anything to "do" - though i could fabricate enough activities to make it a non-wasted day.  massage?  bike shop to get a presta&lt;-&gt;schreader adaptor so i can air up at gas stations...i could use a new pair of shorts since the ones i'm wearing over my bike shorts are wearing thin, but it's not a requirement - i'm always wearing shorts under those, after all.  but my body might want a day to recuperate, and i might want to be out of the sun and heat a little bit.  if, though, i can keep close to 60mi/day on average, i should be able to make it almost all the way to austin by 15 march even with a few days off.  i'm already scheming on skipping some of the slow parts of west texas that i've driven through multiple times before (between fort davis and the start of the hill country, mostly).<br/><br/>today was good - good roads/shoulders (except those last 3 miles into hope...bumpbumpbumpbump.  pretty deflating right at the end, though i suppose better to be deflated there than right at the beginning?) no traffic drama, a nice high average speed, and a pleasant chat with a fellow at a rest stop who brought up one of my favorite factors in the trip that most people don't grok - i have a lot of time to think!  now, if i were a philosopher or mathematician and working on a hard problem, or a novelist working on a book...i might have some thought schedules to use the time productively.  but since i don't...my mind just drifts.  it's kind of a meditation, punctuated by paying enough attention that i don't get smushed.  i think about the nature of what makes leisure activities enjoyable (as i see folks joyriding on motorcycles, or driving dune buggies or RV's and think that it's a good thing we're allowed to have our own personal versions of fun.)  i think about how weirdly conflicted i am about the road network in the US - heavily subsidized because hugely expensive, somewhat useless for the common man if we didn't insist on living so spread out and not buying locally.  but we frequently have such incredible shoulders on our roadways - even the podunk highways, something i haven't seen any of in other countries - which makes bike touring a lot easier.  and the crazy things people drop onto the shoulder.  crazy != loaded diapers or bottles of urine (surprisingly frequent - not that i test them, but i'm pretty sure fruit punch isn't yellow), those things i also wouldn't want in my car - i get it.  but a great new baseball glove, a single unfinished shoe, sex toys &amp; underwear, and today, a onesie.  and so many zillion bottles and cans of alcohol...how many people literally drink while driving?  from my observations, not an insignificant number!  to be clear, i'm not talking about a 6-pack that perhaps someone stopped by the side of the road, drank, and left.  i'm talking about onesies that were just flung, usually no further than the shouler (leaving me glass to dodge, or leaving an empty can to roll lonely into the ditch next to the road).  and then there's the almost-always present buried utility of some sort - power, gas, fiber optics - that's a bonus to having such a roadway network, right-of-ways going everywhere there are people.  at least i have an easier time accepting that, enjoying the results in the middle of nowhere where i can plug my laptop in, drink great water, and have internet (though yesterday's trailer park had wifi, i had password troubles, so this is postdated).<br/><br/>ah, america, i like you a lot (this week), even when you don't make sense.<br/><br/>for your pictorial enjoyment:<br/><br/>1) my first sagauro!  those are the canonical cacti that look like they're being held up and have their arms in the air.  i mentioned that i started to see ocotillo and cholla yesterday, but i don't think i'd ever seen sagauro in the desert last time i was here - they don't really seem to grow in death valley, mojave, joshua tree, or anzo borrego.  i thought i might miss them this time since there are some "forests" of them further south, i've heard.  but there were a few hundred in the miles once i entered arizona.  and millions of creosote bushes, which i wasn't missing.<br/><br/>2) hit a new interstate (10) in addition to the new state and thus the signs of the times are changin'<br/><br/>3) look carefully at the full-size version of this picture of an rv park.  it was in quartzsite, AZ, and has like a half dozen penny-farthing bikesculptures lining its driveway with various impractical steering apparati.  sorry my photographic skills/patience are a bit too limited for good shots of hard-to-see things...<br/><br/>4) hope.  keep it alive?
