---
title: desert, not dessert
date: "2014-02-20T08:11:39-08:00"
---
                                    
today (yesterday, by the time i'm posting) i rode from hope to wickenburg.<br/><br/>arizona believes in roundabouts!  in cali i never saw one, here i've seen two already, and both on highways.  i sat next to the one that's 100 yards from my tent (oy, the major bummer of camping at almost any rv park is road noise), and observed several false starts, a near miss, and much tentative behavior.  having just levelled up in roundabouting in NZ, i get that it is intimidating!  especially when you have a 2-highway junction, retail on all sides, 3 lanes going in and 2 going out in 2 different directions, and a sign that looks like the trailblazers' logo trying to explain it to motorists in the blink of an eye.  maybe it's just arizona DoT since these have all been "highway" roundabouts...<br/><br/>late sunrise is divine!  i actually woke up naturally with the sunrise on this day and the next one - i wish i lived in arizona if nothing else than for the lack of daylight savings observance, since while sunrise will get earlier, it won't get a TON earlier suddenly like it does in the rest of the USA.<br/><br/>setting out from hope, the shoulder was awfully bumpy for a bit, then got narrow and smooth, then stayed middling and variable quality.  all in all, an acceptable day, roadwise.  lots of very straight, pretty flat miles.<br/><br/>had lunch @ some tiny town's only restaurant, "coyote flats", which gave me a recovery milkshake with my roast beef and some water so cold (without ice) that it was still cool 2 hours later.  i recommended them to only the second cyclist i've seen since starting, Ray, who said i was the first he's seen since texas.  while the southern tier cycling route we're using is pretty winter-friendly, i guess the preferred times are late fall and late spring?  i don't need any more heat than i've already been having, personally, and i'll take some chillier weather in the upcoming mountains, by preference.  fortunately nobody forced me to do it at a different time :)<br/><br/>arrived wickenburg by 3pm, to find:<br/>        - the first multi user path since san diego, with accompanying bike lane in the road it paralleled.  i was shocked - this town is ~6k folks but seemed really bike friendly.  until the MUP and the bike lane both ran out unceremoniously 2 miles north of town onto a narrow sidewalk sandwiched against the highway.  well, bettern' nothin :)<br/>        - this town was founded ~1860, and had no jail til 1893.  except a tree.  see picture.<br/>        - downtown, the widest MUP I've ever seen - an old bridge that route 60 used to take was "repurposed" as a pedestrian path.  which also goes nowhere - terminus points are the dirt behind a guardrail that eventually wanders to the trailer park i camped in, or at mcdonalds' parking lot, after going under a bunch and around a corner.<br/>        - dinner was divine - not-quite-texmex, but closer than calimex or even newmexmex;  frozen margarita, great homemade salsa, fresh cooked chips, deeelicious fajitas on freshmade tortillas.  i went with my gut, but it was also recommended by the trailer park proprietor as "the place my kids insist on going first when they come visit" - the kind of recommendation one can easily believe.  plus, homemade prickly pear ice cream!<br/><br/></p>
<p>tonight, phoenix, and i'll post the pictures i took yesterday...cable is buried as i type this at breakfast.</p>
