---
title: back into the veldt
date: "2014-02-23T11:01:39-08:00"
---

yesterday from north phoenix to superior, AZ.<br/><br/>tummy troubles when i awoke led to me going back to bed, worried about making a 70ish mile day by closing time (showing up at a closed campground or hotel would be heartbreaking - i made it!  but can't check in, use the facilities, etc).  an extra hour of layabout made me feel well enough to get ready and go, and i hit the road around 8:30.  when i was still in metro phoenix at 12:30, i was again second guessing my plans, though, i made pretty solid time on those 45 miles.  holy crap, phoenix is sprawling!  i sat in the grocery store (also: lunch restaurant) and examined my maps and thought about my remaining gumption for the day and decided i would certainly make it to superior before dark, and there was a backup hotel option in case i missed the trailer park caretaker.  the concern was not distance but height - i had to go up about 2k feet to a pass, then down some, then back up several hundred feet to the town.  at the end of the day, i'm taking more frequent breaks to rest my hands, feet, butt, and back.  my legs could pretty much go forever, but all the weaker bits start to get angry after a long morning of riding, and suddenly every 15 minutes is reasonable to stop, sip my water, and cheer myself back into the saddle.  lest i make it sound miserable, well, it is a little, but as a masochist i know the kind of misery i actually enjoy :)<br/><br/>today there were:<br/><br/>- more miles of delightful canalside MUP - probably around 10 of em, in the middle of phoenix and at the edge right as i crossed into phoenix.  their (paved) trail system must be well over a hundred miles long - frequently they have 3 paths running in parallel within sight!  (one on each side of a pair of canals, and one between).  it makes sense when you realize there are very few opportunities to cross a canal, and there are underpasses for main roads - on varying branches of the trails.  about the time i stopped using the paths i'd gotten the zen of being on the right path (of the 3 parallel ones) to go under or exit onto a road from the trail, but i had to make some course corrections a few times before i got there.<br/><br/>- people climbing a large red rock (pictured) which i thought about going to climb myself.  would have, had i not been on the fence about going long, but glad i didn't in the end.<br/><br/>- a surprisingly multimodal postal carrier with his bike strapped to the back of his truck, in Mesa, AZ<br/><br/>- some gorgeous vistas<br/><br/>- a frustrating highway design pattern that kept squeezing me into traffic on hwy 60 (2 lanes, 75mph, usually protected by a rumble strip, except...).  guardrails, for no reason, that started at the edge of the shoulder and work their way inward until there is not enough room for my bike on the shoulder, so i hug the rail but am sticking out into traffic.  the shoulder?  paved the same as it ever were, just has a guardrail from the edge eventually planted right in the middle of the shoulder.  no way to go around on the outside, tho - when it starts, it's at the edge, so i'd have to ride into the sloping dirt pointing offroad to get behind it.  anyway, i made it safely.<br/><br/>- some more gorgeous vistas<br/><br/>- a mostly dead town that i'm staying in this evening.<br/><br/>not much more exciting news...none about the ride. Lori is scheming for us to bike/hike yosemite next summer, and got me a book about it that i am waiting anxiously to put onto the kindle when the network cooperates next...</p>
