---
title: short and not at all sweet.
date: "2014-02-23T12:01:39-08:00"
---

                                    
well, phooey, I suddenly can't get the phone to talk to the computer even after quite a reboot festival (time spent:  all i care to spend) so there may not be any more pictures from the road.  but i'll still tell you stories and there will eventually be pictures...<br/><br/>today was short but brutal.  started out great, since the RV park i was intending to camp in last night was closed forever, so i got the last room in the only hotel in town, and it was great!  best $50 hotel room i've ever had, and i've had several during this trip alone.  the bed was real furniture, the room was actually clean, and the walls were thick enough i never heard my neighbors.  so i woke up pretty well rested, but then didn't want to show up in the town of globe looking to camp at 10am...so i waited til 10am to head to breakfast and then out of town.  Emily (who did this route last year) warned me about a tunnel coming out of town, and truly it was unpleasant.  mostly because it was on a serious incline and there was no shoulder and it was dark and trafficky in there!  i took the approach at about 5mph, pushing as hard as i could - steep hill is steep - and waited for a lull in traffic, which actually almost worked - i made it halfway through the tunnel before i got passed, and in fact, nobody hit me or even came close (in the tunnel).  the rest of the day featured occasionally disappearing shoulders, frequently when there was a passing lane&ndash;but taking that lane didn't work very well and a couple cars squeezed past when i was relegated to the edge by honks, or just when i was struggling uphill and not going super straight.  in the end, no harm except to my "is this actually a good idea?" sensibilities.<br/><br/>and there were quite scenic vistas!  blast technofailure, i took some pictures of them, and they are good.  it looks, at times, like i'm biking through the grand canyon - same dry red cliff faces in the near, middle, or far distance.  not a lot of man-spoilage, particularly during the parts that are purely under the jurisdiction of the forest service (am riding through the tonto national forest at the moment.  i don't think the lone ranger national forest is on this route...)<br/><br/>due to many breaks (mostly pulling off the road between guardrails during the shoulderless parts so i could stop worrying for a minute or 10 that the next person was going to fail to move over) finally made it into the miami/globe area around 1, and sat at sonic til 2 drinking my lunch (malt + slushie) and trying to figure out where exactly the RV park was.  finally got enough of a cell connection to google-map it (those pre-cached maps i was worried about back on day 0?  pretty useless - they don't zoom all the way in, so there aren't street names for the most part :/) and found my way on down.  the proprietress was nice enough, and apologetic for the lack of shower or any facilities that weren't a picnic table and a portapotty (but, wifi at least!).  but today being so short i wasn't really filthy, just sweaty, so i took a hose shower and pitched my tent and wrote this.  tomorrow will be a long day, but the aforementioned proprietress knows the route and suggested that though she doesn't ride, people who've been through have not thought it too terrible, flat as it is.  hopefully i can get up and get rolling right after sunrise and thus make it to my destination in time to camp.<br/><br/>in the meantime, i have a bent fender that is completely preventing the back wheel from moving, that i'll be doing some delicate surgery on.  and i bet there's a restaurant somewhere in town that'll serve me dinner.  so i've got that going for me :)<br/><br/>hugs from the road!</p>
