---
title: it gets better
date: "2014-03-04T11:01:39-08:00"
---
                    <p>fort hancock to van horn<br/><br/>today was much better.  to be honest, even last night was a step up - i had decent dinner, caught up on email and vegged out in front of the TV.  it's weird - i pretty much only watch TV in hotels.  but hey, that's where i was, and since i couldn't take an hourlong shower, well, i just lounged (my cold-water stamina proved so low that i couldn't even take a minute-long shower - i turned on the water, and felt it, and couldn't get in...)</p>
<p><br/>this morning i woke up bright and early, 7am, and discovered that it was 1 degree above freezing outside.  this delayed any motion for a couple hours as i waited for it to warm up.  i reassembled my gear (loading time is around 30 minutes when i am focused and don't have to repack sleeping gear or tent - that adds about 25 minutes, the way i roll and stuff), dropped my key, and walked my bike across the street to the same cafe i had dinner at.  breakfast was cheaper and tastier, and i demolished a burrito and some pancakes.  it's now approaching 10am, and as i started riding - the first 30 or so miles - i thought that might have been a fatal mistake, as far as "getting to my 70-miles-distant destination before dark" goal went.  the first 15 miles were nothing new - just little back roads with almost 0 traffic or housing, hugging the mexican border, but still within sight of the interstate.  slogging along at 12mph, i thought "man, i could really use to pick up the pace!" but just lacked some oomph.  the next 15 miles, unfortunately, were on the shoulder and frontage road to the interstate, and those were a slog - 7-8mph, just struggling.  finally realized, hey, i'm going uphill! and then turned a corner and simply flew through the remaining 40 miles in time enough to not only get into town in the light, but stop for dinner, find a cheap hotel, and get settled in before dark.<br/><br/>plus, i crossed the final "line" of any significance in my ride today (besides, i guess, the finish line!) - entered the central timezone just west of van horn, and now all of my clocks except the cellphone are two hours off.  dunno how to reset my bike computer (speedo/odo/etc) - which mostly displays my speed and the time, since i try not to count miles, and have learned my lesson about dicking with the computer clock and screwing up every event in my google calendar that i schedule while time-skewed, so i just do the math.  not like i ever pull my computer up to check the time :)<br/><br/>today was better not only because i was able to maintain an average of over 15mph for more than half of the day, but also because:<br/><br/>- better scenery.  yesterday was pretty minimal in the "ooh, mountains" department, and pretty maximal in the "gee, that is another abandoned mobile home that has been turned into a dump" category.  after the first 15 miles today, mountains started closing in, and abandoned homes decreased in number, though perhaps only because homes decreased in number.  aside from sierra blanca, not much happened in the way of "something to break up the countryside".<br/><br/>- then, i met two portland-originating tourers in sierra blanca who gave me some advise about places to stay upcoming, were just gentle and friendly souls, and though they were going the other way, cheered me up a bit - they said they'd seen lots of bike tourists out, around texas, when i mentioned that i'd seen only 3 + david, and that others i'd passed had been pretty lonely-feelin' too.  perhaps the season is upon us?<br/><br/>- as though to confirm this theory, when i saw that van horn has a chuy's (my favorite tex-mex restaurant), i had to go.  i pulled up and saw 3 other bikes locked outside - ones with racks, to set them apart from fancy roadie bikes that have trouble carrying a water bottle, or old rust traps that an octogenarian rides down the street on after he totaled his third car and had his license revoked.  turned out that this chuy's is the original, and that the austin-based chain is an impostor, but despite the disappointment of not getting to drink a cup of the jalapeno ranch, i had a great little mexican dinner with some american queso (tasted like rotel+velveeta; still hit the spot!) and a frozen margarita.<br/><br/>- while at dinner, i turned my phone on for just about the first time today, and heard david is gonna try to join me via bus.  not sure if he's coming all the way to VH yet or if he's gonna stop where i was last night and ride the rest of the way, but the whole "him on the move" thing makes me feel like we'll be rolling together again soon.<br/><br/>- after dinner, i confirmed my host for tomorrow, on the mountain where the mcdonald observatory is.  pretty jazzed about the return to old stomping grounds - i used to visit fort davis and the observatory about once a year at the end of my car-having days, when i lived in austin.  since it is, well, a 10-hour drive from austin!  i saw a sign by the highway today that said "van horn - 20 ; dallas - 519".  texas is a wide state!  tomorrow will be a night for the stars, as long as the clouds decide to run off.  heard tell from the sierra blanca couple that dude works on the telescopes and loves giving tours.  personal star party?  don't mind if i do!<br/><br/>catch y'all on the flipside - may not have internet for a couple days (keep waiting for that shoe to drop.  won't complain if it doesn't, but setting expectations low)</p>
