---
title: this time, a pleasant jaunt...to texas.
date: "2014-03-02T15:01:39-05:00"
---
las cruces to el paso - a nice, gently 45ish miler from friend Ted's home to warmshower/couchsurfing Alanna's home.  went out to the bar where Ted &amp; roomie work, had some drinks, came back around midnight &amp; then slept in (or tried to) til 10ish when we got up and sluggishly started moving - packed, grocery store visit, schlotsky's sandwiches for lunch (the lady was very confused when i ordered a large sandwich for just me, "you know it's big, right?" ...i put it away without trouble) and then we cruised through the NMSU campus (where Ted went and roomie is currently going) on the way out of town.  around 30 miles in, we happened upon a coffee shop and craft fair, first weekend of every month and hey yeah it is the first weekend!  got some caffeine to pep up, talked about the ride, and i picked up jerky, which i hadn't been able to find at the store we visited, and dav<br/>id got some superior honey.  then we were back on the road and a mile or so in, without fanfare, suddenly the signs changed area codes to el paso and the traffic signage started looking familiar to me, so i guess we're in texas now...<br/><br/>my maps are newer than david's and point to a bike path along the rio grande (which now is just an empty canal), which was pretty divine.  the only other users we saw was a couple who were riding with their dog and we stopped to chat.  turns out they're part of the local bike and pedestrian advisory committee cutely named vElo Paso (<a href="http://www.velopaso.com/">http://www.velopaso.com/</a>) and i promised to look them up on facebook once i found some internet.  David had coordinated with our warm showers host and so started navigating from the bike path down some fairly heavy traffic streets (well i guess we can actually thank google for that!) but the main street we were on for the most miles is the same one that the maps we're using say to use.  3+ lanes each way, 30-45mph, lots of cars, but we just took a lane (the power of 2 riders together!) and had only one honk and no close calls on the way to Alanna's.<br/><br/>it was a tiny bit windy, but the wind kept shifting so sometimes we were zooming along at 22 (still got passed by several roadies out of las cruces) and sometimes struggling at 10, but since it was a short day, the struggles didn't get strung out and ragged, except while we were hustling to keep up with traffic in town.  still, being able to pull 30 going uphill (rollers = &lt;3) after riding for 2 weeks straight at the end of a day's travel makes (this) one feel younger than his years.  that and i shaved for the first time in 8 days so i also look momentarily young again (though red on top, white in the middle, and brown in the legs!)<br/><br/>El Paso turns out to be kinda beautiful!  it's nestled up against the mountains we've been riding through yesterday and parallel to today, and there were these pink-tinged fluffy clouds in a surprisingly montana-esque big-sky world.  for those who haven't spent much time in montana (says the dude who's spent maybe 3 weeks of his life there :)), its logo is "big sky country" and it's weirdly the case that the sky seems bigger - perhaps because there are usually mountains tinging most of the horizon, but not necessarily rising up right next to you (unless you're in missoula, or glacier, or bozeman, i guess...).  there was some of that today, but it wasn't mountains in all directions, just a couple, but still, quite majestic!<br/><br/>the family we're staying with seems quite excellent, can't wait to chat them up over dinner.  since they have kids probably won't be an out-at-the-bar kinda night, but tomorrow starts a week of long miles with few people, methinks, so maybe early to bed is the way to go.</p>
                                
<!--                <span id="timestamp"> March 2nd, 2014 4:11pm </span> -->
