---
title: Over the mountains and through the tired
date: "2014-03-07T11:01:39-08:00"
---
 
<p>two days ago: van horn to the mcdonald observatory<br/><br/>ah, the best laid plans...i spent an hour last night getting everything set up so i could just get up and go in the morning, intending to make an early start.  instead, here's what happened:<br/><br/>1) i hit snooze for an hour or so, because it was, after all, *before sunrise* when the alarm went off at 7.  "i've got time to sleep a little more..."<br/>2) finally dragged myself out of bed, got the bike all loaded up and was just about ready to roll, and discovered that my front tire was flat.  aired it up as much as i can with my pump (which is halfway), and sat for 5 minutes to see if that would hold - after all, i've had a slow leak in the front since i started the tour...at first it was lasting a week, then a few days, then yesterday as i pulled into dinner it felt soft, so i aired it up to roll to the hotel, which seemed to work.  anyway, 5 minutes later, dead flat, so now i get to unload the bike, pull the wheel off, and get filthy changing the tube.  at least i was at the hotel where i could wash up!  i found what seemed like a sharp bit which i removed the tip of, just enough so i couldn't grab the remainder from inside the tire, and whatever it is isn't sticking out the outside...so i cuss a little, hope it's good enough, put a new tube in, and wash up.  so now it's 8:40, and i'm kicking myself already for snoozing for that hour.  but i set off and...<br/>3) immediately go the wrong way out of town.  i'd brazenly turned my map to the next page because this page was "just on the interstate" except actually it's on the frontage road.  the frontage road on the other side of the freeway.  which i figure out when the one on the side i was using abruptly ends.  turn around, go back into town, then head back out the correct side of the freeway, and struggle against the headwind for the 20 miles until i make it to the last usable sign of civilization, a diner and quickie mart.  have breakfast, and the waitress keeps refilling my orange juice so i drink a bunch.  refill the 1 water bottle i've managed to deplete, and head outside to find my tire low again.  i pump it up, hoping against hope that i just didn't fill it enough that first time, but no, 2 miles later it's empty again and now i am on the side of the highway - no more frontage road, this is next-to-80mph-traffic shoulder-ville.  i roll my bike across the grass by the shoulder to the fence bordering the highway and take my bags off the bike (have to, to get the wheel off) and curse a bunch while i proceed to get slightly less filthy, having already transferred much of the available wheel filth to my hands earlier in the morning.  while taking the wheel off, notice that the brakes are weird...and realize that my front rack is slipping down the fork and squishing the brake line, causing them to rub constantly on the wheel.  grr!  try to fix that, but can only do so much without a wrench and a bike stand, so just proceed to get the tube patched and find 2 thorns in the tire - i'm sure i checked thoroughly this morning and didn't see them...so they came from the grass, as i rolled the bike over to change the tube!  agh!  i find the spot that i'd marked as having the *earlier* problem, but even with the sun to illuminate, i just can't see what's wrong - seems like i'm starting to dig up into the stuff the tire is made of (which includes some wire) and not actually working loose some removable intruder.  i put the thing back together, it holds, and again i roll.  it's noon by now, noon i was hoping to be well off the highway but instead i have 17 remaining miles of riding on the shoulder.  which i proceed to do pretty quickly, kinda to my surprise, and as i get close to the highway exit i promise myself "i'm in a bad mood.  i'll ride until it starts to go uphill (for there is a large climb before the end of the day) but then i'll put a thumb out and get a ride.  yeah!  won't be riding in the dark, won't be exhausted when i arrive, ok, it's a plan!"<br/><br/>the highway exit is the former town of kent - a few abandoned houses and a collapsing one room school designed, i think, to look like the alamo?  at any rate, a mission.  it's odd, but nobody around to ask what the deal was supposed to be;  this town is shut, completely.  for the first time, i turn onto a familiar road (i've driven down it a half dozen times back in the day, though usually at night) and keep pedaling.  i'm about 40 miles shy of my destination, and it's 1:30pm.  don't think it'll get dark before 7.  should be doable even with a lot of climbing.  how much climbing?  something on the order of 4400 feet, though that was the "whole day" number from the internet, and though i hope i've already climbed a steady thousand on the interstate, i have no way of knowing.  i still do the math and think "ok, averaging 8mph i'll still make it." and then proceed to go about 15 for the next 10 miles.  yay for adding to my buffer!  during this time, i am passed by only 3 vehicles - a car, a single-occupant pickup, and a UPS truck.  hmm.<br/><br/>i keep rolling, getting tireder and tireder as i go up...only to come back down.  2 steps upward, one step down, it feels like.  i guess that's where the 4400 gross, ~2000 net discrepancy in numbers comes from?  anyway, the road is fine, and the weather decent, and the scenery on the mend - moving from desert-scrub to desert-scrub with trees, boulders, and mountains.  so at least there's all that!  i keep on climbing and swooping down, over and over, but can't really tell my progress - there are only a few things on the map to count distance by,  and i've passed none as yet.<br/><br/>it's 3:30pm, and finally i come to the first marker.  that marker is about 20 miles from the end, so i am pretty happy - made better time than i'd thought.  but immediately beyond the intersecting road it's just a huge, heartbreaking hill.  i push the bike up it, afoot, and as i do, the road narrows and the shoulder goes away.  great, i think...just what i need.  of course, i still haven't seen another car going my way, so the shoulder isn't needed, and hasn't been where i'm riding anyway (the main pavement being slightly less bumpy than the shoulder).<br/><br/>about now i'm tired and ready to be picked up.  i eagerly await passing vehicles as i walk anytime my speed falls under 6mph, which is surprisingly often.  i struggle up hills, sweating, and then bomb down the other side, freezing as the wind chills my sweat.  i couldn't put on a jacket - i'd just sweat through it too!  but mostly i'm acceptable temperature, not in danger of freezing or overheating.  i keep struggling.  it takes me over an hour to get to the next waypoint, which i think of as "halfway" though the last leg, though there is no good way to measure on my tiny map.  4:45 and all's...well, still making progress.  my host had mentioned he wouldn't be back from work til kinda late, so maybe this is good, i think, trying to make it seem like a silver lining.  i eat...i've been snacking all afternoon but am still feeling depleted.  drinking gatorade like it's going out of style (though no cramps so far this trip - so that at least seems to be working ok).  just dragging.  no cars that seem appropriate roll past, or those that do, i've been staring at the ground or the hill in front of me and not paying enough attention to get off, get my smile on and thumb out for in time.  so...i just ride the rest of the way.  hoping to see the telescopes, atop the next peak, or the next?  sure i'll make it before dark, but maybe not before i start hating being on this trip.  realize that the front rack has slipped back down and now the brakes are rubbing nonstop.  how long ago did that happen?  unknown, but i disconnect the front brakes to make sure i'm not extra-struggling.  that can be fixed up before i go down any major hills...some time other than "right now", when i have a wrench at least, i hope. two handed application of pliers and tiny alan wrench that i do have has proven tricky at best in the experimentation i did earlier.<br/><br/>finally come around the corner and see the telescopes atop the next hill over...way over.  still miles away.  sigh.  i walk and roll, rarely leaving my lowest gear, and limp up the road to my host's house.  they're not home yet, but i am greeted by chihuahuas.  it's getting cold (but not yet dark) at 6:30 so i change into jeans and a jacket.<br/><br/>and now i'm watching a dear stand on its hind legs to graze on a tree across the street, and listening to a whippoorwill (sp?) make fun of me as the deer fearlessly approach.  they end up nibbling the grass about 10 feet from me.  i'm a stealthy typist :).  so that's an ok ending to the day, right?  the rest of the week is shorter (than today), and downhill=trending days, so that seems like it'll be a-ok, all the way to del rio.  and a sore butt hasn't yet killed me...</p>
