---
title: short and sweet
date: "2014-02-28T15:01:39-05:00"
---
yesterday: awoke to massive birdsong, as i'd slept to most-of-the-night splishsplash from the ducks and fish in the lake.  roused from bed and greeted the world, but couldn't come up with the oomph needed to really make myself much of a breakfast, unfortunately, so i nibbled a bit and set out.  30 miles later, i crossed the continental divide and my cold feet about making it last night really felt spot-on;  the climb was tough and i was still tired.  i have to climb a tooon tomorrow so hopefully this short day will leave me in good shape for it...but then it's pretty much downhill to el paso, and i will likely get to crash in a friendly home in las cruces, with the son of some old friends of the family - who lives there.  got into silver city, my destination for the day, right at lunchtime, and found the holy grail of a pizza hut lunch buffet as my stomach was gurgling in protest of the lack of nutrition (but, plenty of water to make it here - had about a liter left over when i pulled into town.  will have to stockpile again for the climb tomorrow since while it's all downhill from emory pass...it's 25 miles til the climb starts and then 15 miles of solid climb (should be even worse than yesterday's!  or better, depending on how i'm feeling :))).  was planning to find the warmshowers.org host in town to stay with tonight, aka "the bike house", but am feeling like a shower and laundry right after lunch so will probably grab a hotel for the evening and just relax instead of having social time.  i know, what else do i do in the evenings but relax, now?  i guess i'm saving up my social for my arrival in texas, or something...<br/><br/>silver city has a neat skate park with some pretty cool bike art which hey, you will get to see (in a few days), since my phone decided to play nice with the computer today.  i guess i'll have a few photo posts or maybe just a list of links, probably from el paso.<br/><br/>postscript - at dinner i met another tourer with whom i'll set out over the worst climb on the trip this morning!  David's moving faster than me, so this will probably be the only day we ride together (and i'll probably stop before him), but what great timing to find a like-minded soul :)<br/><br/>see you from las cruces, most likely - doubt there will be wifi tonight.</p>

<!-- <span id="timestamp"> February 28th, 2014 6:23am </span> -->
