---
title: Mode Switching
date: "2014-03-12T17:01:39-05:00"
---
so i'm done riding my bike - after 24 days in the saddle, 1420 miles, and lotsa hours, people, cacti, breezes, and hills, i tossed my bike in a car and drove the rest of the route - there's no bus outta del rio, and the train station won't work (no way to buy a bike box or get my bike loaded - can only take carry on luggage from del rio).  i'd riddeninto austin on the route before, for about the last day's worth (johnson city onwards) so i just drove the route up to that point.  there were some beautiful vistas, and some terrifying, blind corner no shoulder cliffside hills (particularly around leakey, tx), that i didn't mind missing.  also, some long days with nothing on &lsquo;em - 90 miles without anything = carrying a lot and camping by the side of the road.  while there was no more border patrol omnipresence, there was plenty of hunting-ranch to go around and it strikes me that camping by one of those is probably not a best practice.  i did see 4 folks riding the other direction, but nobody going east.  a lonely road this time of year, except for David!  who's waiting for me in town, we'll have to go ride lighter bikes around now that we can :)<br/><br/>i rolled in around rush hour, but headed straight to friend gavino's home, since he's west of town and thus west of rush hour traffic.  played some disc golf, caught up with eachothers' lives, and had good times in general.<br/><br/>today, my ass is already recovered, legs are getting twitchy, but still feeling like i did the right thing by stopping while i was having fun until waiting til the honeymoon was completely over.  I shipped off 18 pounds of gear this morning, and tossed ~5# of spoiling/used food.  lighter bike is light, even though i'm still carrying my sleeping gear for maximal couchsurfing (or sleeping under a bridge...er...just kidding?) possibilities.<br/><br/>i sure do miss ya, portland!  but, hello, austin! anxiously awaiting sister's baby which should be here within the next week, then i'll get some family time to go with friend time :)  this afternoon, some drinks with a friend, then tomorrow, hanging out with shay and checking out her sxswparty and then thursday evening writing group.  yeehaw!</p>

<p>PS: i have about 20 pictures to post once i find a slightly better internet connection...</p>
