---
title: Sanderson to Langtry
date: "2014-03-12T16:01:39-05:00"
---
 
got up early, got what was probably my lowest food-value breakfast from the cafe (2 3$ burritos that were lesser in size than the $.99 breakfast tacos i ate the day before), then rolled towards del rio with much dilly-dallying - last tent strike, last packup, of this leg and probably the bike trip - by this point, pretty ready to be done and have looked into trip-availability out of del rio and that should work out.  but as happy as i'll be to get my second (and following) rest day(s) in 24 days of mostly-hard riding, i'm already wishing i had a week of time travel, so i could take a day off and still make it to austin before my sister gives birth, to give me more time to play in the country and in the city.  but today, there are only miles, my bike, and the road.  The only stop i made was comstock, the only township between beginning and end...for carb-snack from quickie mart, as promised cafe was out of service.  my maps have mostly been really accurate, but there's no accounting for tiny town rural economies that seem brutal to off-season establishments.  though i think we're on-season for desert, since high-summer is practically unlivable?  anyway, i am but one dollar among thousands of potentials, most of which pass this area by, i guess you could say.<br/><br/>during some of the ~3k feet of climbing today (map says: no net gain or loss!) i was rained on...for about 30 minutes, gently.  this would be my only use of rain gear the entire trip, and was honestly not quite enough rain to justify me carrying it, but so much better safe than sorry, i figure.  same thing with carrying a tent.  not technically required - one of the folks in marathon was "cowboy camping", but i like a tent for being able to walk away and leave my stuff in with the expectation that it will all be there when i get back.  nothing worse has ever happened to my tent than it getting peed on by a cat way back in arizona.  maybe 2 cats.  but anyway, my stuff's never been pilfered, or eaten by javalinas, or rifled through by curious neighbors or border patrol agents.  as far as i know! :)<br/><br/>finally found that border patrol checkpoint i knew would be coming.  this one was primarily targeted at folks going the other direction (out of del rio, i guess - that's the closest port of entry as they call &lsquo;em), but after my once and future riding pal David's terrible experience with them a few days prior, i knew i could be detained, searched, hassled, etc.  but instead the first two guys to see me just waved me through.  the third one, dog-leash-holder, told his dog to "go on, get some bunny for lunch!" which made me laugh uncomfortably and ride quickly past before they decided to come make this threat more threatening.<br/><br/>coming into del rio was a long bridge over a very low lake.  draught is for real down here, folks.  and finally, i pulled in during rush hour but the traffic was polite to bikes. i guess nobody walks in del rio, though - i saw only 2 pedestrians the whole time i was in town, and while they have decent sidewalks (where available), and crosswalks, the non-main streets were pretty much sans sidewalk.  so i walked to the bank in the grass, and it was fine.</p>
