---
title: shouting into the wind
date: "2014-03-01T16:01:39-06:00"
---
caballo to las cruces.  60 windy, windy miles.  unlike yesterday, the wind was largely in our faces, and we struggled for most of that 60mi.  it would have been really demoralizing and unfun on my own, but somehow, as i posited a week or so ago&mdash;suffering in company makes it better.<br/><br/>5 miles to quickie mart empanada (? but delightful!) + chocolate milk breakfast, then another 15ish to brunch in famous hatch, nm - green chile capitol of the world!  david needed some bits from the hardware store which was near the west edge of town, so he asked about the best restaurant in town and we got directed to sparky's, which led to a fucking incredible brunch!  i had a burger with green chile pulled pork on it (affectionately called the oinker) with green chile queso fries and a chocolate milkshake.  wish i'd seen the sign advertising green chili milkshakes, lemonade, etc before i'd ordered...but it was too late already.  no worries, beacuse, the food was quick, tasty, and the chairs comfy, and the photo ops plentiful, as i'm sure you'll see sometime soon :)<br/><br/>after that, we wound about 40 miles along the rio grande, which you may know as the border between texas and mexico, but at this point in NEW mexico, is just an almost-dry creekbed, clearly drained by upstream irrigation.  more of a very rio pequeno, not really a rio at all - a foot deep, 10 feet wide, barely flowing at all, twisting under our very tiny, shoulderless "highway" that runs next to interstate 25 and is thus mostly unused except for "local traffic" which was almost all rather courteous, and a bunch of tiny dogs (seems to be the local flavor along this stretch of road) which really wanted to eat us but had no hope of catching us even at 10mph average.<br/><br/>about at the town of radium springs (which, during daylight, neither glows nor has a sprung floor underlying the entirety of the incorporated area), we crossed the rio pequeno on a "historic" bridge (which was configured as, and treated by us as, a glorified multi-user pathway - we rode over it instead of staying on the highway shoulder).  while taking pitures of the wide swathe of sand and the tiny bit of water, David noticed the very threatening gray clouds, which were clearly raining on the mountains in the background of the picture.  radium springs was listed as about 17 miles from las cruces on the map, and according to google, more like 20 from my friend Ted's house.  at 10mph average, if the rain (or snow?  weatherbug was giving us a "winter storm warning - preceded by high winds" advisory), pedaling downhill so we didn't come to a total stop was gonna get us there eventually...but suddenly there was urgency, and David said, "well Chris, how fast can you ride?" and we suddenly doubled our pace.  we couldn't maintain that of course, but we did maintain 15 into town, along some kind of dubious main-street sharrows that made it seem like bikes should hug the curb in an 11' lane, but without hassle, until we got pretty close to friend Ted's house, and realized we were about an hour early to meet him, so found the nearest bar and camped out, and you get this posting...</p>
                                
<!--                <span id="timestamp"> March 1st, 2014 3:30pm </span> -->
