---
title: Two days ago
date: "2014-02-27T15:01:39-07:00"
---
<p>a short day that felt rather harder than it should have - maybe 40 miles from thatcher to "three way", a glorified truck stop where some highways meet in the middle of nowhere.  also here:  a ranger station for the apache national forest i'm entering, plus an arizona department of transportation facility.  oh, and the largest jehova's witness kingdom hall i've ever seen (with no apparent dwellings to explain its location?). plus, a pretty great view of the last 3 miles i bombed down (a huuuge hill) to get here.  fortunately the ranger station has a bathroom and a water fountain and is kind enough to let bikers camp here, so i pitched my tent on the brownest mowed lawn i've ever seen (with occasional weeds/clover a startling green interspersed) and as i was finishing that up, in rolled Denny O.  he's a local and sometimes volunteer to keep this (ranger station + bathroom) clean, since he lives in a little RV 3 miles down the way with no potty and comes here to use this one.  pretty awesome, even if somewhat self-serving.  anyway he talked my ear off for a half hour or so about bikes, life in the desert, and an organized road ride he's leading in a month and a half, the <a href="http://hstrial-javchase.homestead.com/index.html?_=1391643851858">javalina chase</a>.  if you've never seen a javalina, it looks like a kinda streamlined pig, and it loves to eat people food - like racoons but a little less dextrous.  i first met a javalina in fort davis, tx, when camping with laura/matt/amy back in 2001, when we were awoken by a javalina standing on its hind legs trying to get at some trash we'd stowed in a tree.  dextrous maybe not, but pretty fearless of people.  anyway, in all that talking i didn't quite catch why denny was naming his bike ride after them, except, i guess, that they're local to the area (there were some trying to get into my tent when i came back to it in the evening, in the middle of downtown globe!  unsuccessfully, since snouts can't really operate zippers...).  and you can't legally hunt them except on game preserves or something?  anyway... if you'll be in the gila valley (think halfway between phoenix and el paso) on april 12th - denny, 72 years young, is aching to race you on his carbon fiber bike.  i'm pretty sure dude could beat me easily...he's kinda intense (but friendly).<br/><br/>other notable things today, not many!  I did come across only the 3rd bike tourer i've met since i've been out - we all agree it is perhaps a bit early in the season for "the masses" (i'd be curious to know how many people ride the southern tier every year - i'm fairly certain it's hundreds rather than tens or thousands?  wonder if even the ACA (curators of the route) know.  might be interesting to ask them.  certainly most RV parks and this ranger station that i've stopped at are familiar with the route and always assume i'm heading to florida (where the route ends, if you go all the way, which i'm not sad i'm not doing - i like bike touring, but doing it so alone with not even strangers going my way - is getting a bit lonely and it's always nice to have a posse to cheer you up the hill or to suffer in company, at least).  anyway, my acquaintance met me near the top of a pass (i hadn't been quite certain i was going up...just knew i was going slow and was trying to decide if i should blame my legs or the wind...but as usual, it was the elevation gain) and we swapped stories for a few minutes, she reiterated emily's advice to find the "bike house" in silver city to crash there, and passed on a warning from the ranger station - get off this road by 4, since it gets busy.  which was a weird statement - we were pretty far from anything, ~10mi to my destination and 20mi back to the last gasp of civilization that i'd left behind, but denny explained to me that there's a huge mine over yonder and people get off around 4 and it turns busy.  and indeed i can see quite a stream of traffic heading back that way, even at 5.  and there are other closer towns, fortunately, not in the direction i'm heading out of here tomorrow, so traffic should be light on my route, even if the other highways here are about going to/from work.<br/><br/>after chatting with my fellow tourer, as i resumed riding, i turned a corner and saw that the grade increased, and i was sad - i'd left a little late so i didn't roll into my stop at noon (seems kinda weird to pitch camp before lunch, even if the hosts wouldn't have minded...hotels certainly hate it when you show up early!) and i didn't make it over the hill til 3.  it was, though, then all downhill, so i did those last 7 miles in about 15 minutes (yeah, do the math - averaged 30mph down this sweeping well-shouldered pavement).<br/><br/>each county has its own department of transportation crew (says denny, but i had figured it was something like that since the pavement usually changes at the county line, and this road was no exception).  it changed from really crappy - bumpy, thin, full of glass and trash - to gorgeous - super smooth and it looked like someone actually took a street sweeper to this shoulder?  how often can they do that?  not very often, says denny, but i had the interesting experience of having to pass the sweeper in action as i went downhill - i know they don't move very fast while working, fortunately.  and denny said "yeah, this county's DoT is super great to cyclists and really cares about shoulders.&quot;  yay greenlee county!  sad that i'll only get to celebrate them for a bit longer, since in 13.5 miles i crest the pass, and enter new mexico, where all the rules will be different...<br/><br/>i have trepidation about tomorrow - denny says it's low traffic, but the major climb is first-thing, 13.5 miles, and my proposed destination is 80 miles and thousands of feet &quot;up".  i'll try to get an early start, try to hitch when the going gets tough, and see how it goes.  of course, you won't see this til i get to silver city, so i'll have triumphed somehow by then :)</p>
