               
---
title: Sanderson to Langtry
date: "2014-03-12T15:01:39-05:00"
---
I awoke to the pitter patter of raindrops in darkness, past my usual arousal time.  couldn't understand the darkness versus the clock until some internet communication informed me it was time for the silly clock change dance - sprung forward yet again!  3 hours ahead of where i started, 3 weeks ago.  so, i stayed in bed awhile.  my front tire had gone flat again, and i made the call - it was an old tire, but super thick-treaded and i figured it would be good for awhile longer...but apparently it wasn't.  still, it lasted almost 15,000 miles by my reckoning (it was 2 years old and i ride an average of 7500mi/year) and so i dumped it while i had the hotel room handy for cleanup, and installed my spare and one of my last "fresh" tubes.  spoiler alert: it held up for the rest of the riding :)<br/>but, as a result of this, got a bit of a late start, after ordering breakfast tacos (!) and watching the tortillas get made fresh (which was good, because the filling was stale and old.  still, sustenance, and cheap).  fortunately, i had looked at the "real" elevation profile (the ACA map of the route is kind of lacking in detail, so it won't show rollers at all - down+up = cancels out) online, and wasn't shocked or heartbroken by the ~2k feet of climbing - despite a net descent of the same distance.  despite all that up, i still averaged 15+mph, with very steady 14+ except on uphills.  felt fest, made it fast - ~4 hours total including ~30min of resting/eating breaks for 60mi is a dream - if every day was that easy, well, i would have finished sooner :)  i guess my legs are also in pretty good shape by this point, meaning it should all be easy,  but of course it isn't. for instance, in the town of dryden (mile 20 of 60), supposed services were closed, so i got no real relief there.  ate banana, drank water, carried on.<br/>throughout the day, saw nothing.  empty land, nearly empty road except regular (average 1 car / 5 min) traffic.  1/10th of all passing traffic was the border patrol - as i re-approached the border after my last brush in el paso.<br/>this day marked my "out of the high canyonlands" by a transition onto a mesa for ~20mi of featureless, barely even bumps on the horizon...and then into the low canyonlands as i approached langtre.  from my camping spot, i can see mexico.  incidentally, the town i camped in is the former jurisdiction of, and has a huge memorial to, judge roy bean who was a pretty crazy character in the late 1800's - he called himself "the law west of the pecos" and he was all there was...and since there was no jail, he took fines only and pretty much ignored the lawbooks.  but he seemed to be what the rough-n-tumble area needed at the time.  there was an extensive garden of desert plants which i wish i had been exposed to at the beginning of, rather than the end of, my tour.<br/>since i was camped in a tent, by the side of the road, in an abandoned rv park (which the owner explicitly posted on his web page was open to free campers on bikes), i kinda expected border patrol to give me a hard time - i guess i'd turn up on an infrared scope from the highway?  and they were driving past left and right, since this little township is the closest to mexico in 50 miles in either direction?  but i slept in my clothes just in case i was made to exit the tent quickly...and slept through the night without so much as an animal (or a bug) buggin' me.</p>
