---
title: marathon to sanderson
date: "2014-03-12T15:01:39-06:00"
---
after posting my last blog post, i remained in marathon until the next morning, and some stuff went down at the hostel.  but it was all good stuff!  some is documented on the hostel's facebook page including this shot that features me.<br/><br/><a href="https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=731882676852033&amp;set=pcb.731884226851878&amp;type=1&amp;theater">https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=731882676852033&amp;set=pcb.731884226851878&amp;type=1&amp;theater</a><br/><br/>the sunset shots in that album came out way better than my phone camera ones, so you might check out the kind of sky-awesomeness i was rewarded with that night (which may have been the best i saw - but was typical in palette and intensity, if not variety).  i stayed in a wee comfy trailer that had a lot of touches of personality from previous guests, which i sadly had little to add.  i am working on a poem about the opera of the highway - cars singing and whizzing past, doppler effects and percussion from engine brakes and those little dots they put on the center stripe, and my little bicycle bell.  if that ever reaches a point of fruition, i'll probably calligraph a copy and send it over to Gil &amp; friends - they have so much traveler-made art on their buildings with heart...<br/><br/>had a minimal snacky dinner, then an evening of hangouts with gil (proprietor), greg (caretaker &amp; wanderer), ingrid (local, friend to Gil), matthias, adam, reed (fellow travelers, though, going east).  there was, as promised, whiskey and campfire.  also, watched art as a new mural was started on the big bedroom building, travel tales were told by riders, and of life east and west of the iron curtain (matthias from W. Germany, ingrid from somewhere in eastern europe), and Adam cooked an amazing smelling dinner ("this is the first time I've had a good kitchen in a month!".  Unfortunately for me, i was unable to wait for tasty dinner - overwhiskeying with only faux dinner in my belly led to pigout on snacks from my pannier, and early accidental sleep.  don't worry though - i was woken by the howling wind around 4, at which point, everyone else is asleep...<br/><br/>the next morning, the wind stayed through breakfast, though getting to the diner where i ate left me confused about its direction - seemed like it might be a tailwind.  but no, after breakfast, i found that it was a heartbreaking headwind which i soaked in for the first 15ish miles, thinking "geez, this is gonna be a long day".  but then, there was a sudden break in the wind and it never really came back, and i averaged a fast 15mph for the rest of the day.   it was funny, but the slowest part was coming into town, which according to the map and some signs by and on the road, is the home of a big road race's time trial component.  slight downhill, great pavement, lack of turns, well-paved shoulder - man, i shoulda zoomed!  but instead it was windy and i dawdled along, finally pulling over to change my everfasterleaking front tire.  despite the dawdling, noticing amber waves of grain literally waving at me on the shoulder, basking in the end of a shorter-than-expected-time-in-the-saddle day, i almost arrived in town before the witching hour, er, the checkin hour at hotels.  in fact, the first 3 i stopped at had no proprietor present, so i pressed on for the advertised fourth hotel which was fortunately open and strangely solicitous of cycler-business - the owner gave me a snack plate upon arrival, then came to give me more (which i turned down, though i did eat all of his cookies, chips, and candy from the first plate as a lunch-substitute).  this hotel was weird - maybe 1/3 of its capacity appeared open/available - there were several outlying buildings that looked way shut.  but the room i got was very 50's (appeared to be all original, including the bedspreads?) with all the wood paneling and scored the "softest towels of this trip!" award, despite the weird.  anyway, it was a fine place to lay my head.</p>
